Welcome to the end of
chapter lab, where we are
going to review the contents
of the fault tolerance chapter.
We are going to start with lab
tolerance-review start script,
which sets everything up.
It basically places the 4 microservices from
the quarkus conference application
into DO378/labs/tolerance-review/.
What we will be doing is
we will be working with
the microservice-session
application mostly.
But we need to add the smallrye
health extension to both the session
and the schedule applications
first, because that's where
we are going to start.
We are going to start by looking
at how to implement health.
So we use from the top level directory
just above the 4 web services,
we just use quarkus:add-extension,
go with maven.
We select Dextension
to be smallrye-
health, and we use the
-pl option to point
maven at Reactor projects of
microservice-schedule and microservice-session.
So it will go into the subdirectories and
fix the configuration of
the projects in there.
Next, we are going to have the
LivenessCheck to both applications,
starting with the schedule
application. There it is.
It simply returns Service is alive
and it's the same check for
the session microservice except
that the package is different.
So we are going to do the same.
You can just copy the file
and change the package,
that's it.
They are literally the same.
The next thing we are going to do is create
a ReadinessCheck for both of them.
So starting with the, again,
scheduled application, the ReadinessChecks
simply says Service is ready.
If it's reachable then it's ready.
And we are going to do again the same
thing for the session application.
Again, the same file, no difference,
so we can just copy it and
change the package name.
And then we are going to start
the applications and test them.
So for that purpose,
we have a service-toggle script,
which if we started,
shows us a list of modules and
allows us to start or stop
the modules, display the Status or Exit.
We are going to start the
postgresql database first.
Then we are going to start
the session microservice.
You see the logs and when it starts up,
we are going to also start
the schedule microservice.
You can ignore the port 5005
in use.
We are not going to debug anything.
So once both of them start,
we will also start the speaker microservice,
we are going to see why a little bit later.
So when they are all started up,
we can go on and test them.
Sending a q/health request to
port 8081 on localhost,
we get the UP status.
Doing the same to port 8083,
we also get the same response
because we have literally
implemented the same health
and liveness checks.
Note, how both applications report the
Database connection health as well,
even though we didn't
really implement that,
that's the automatic health endpoints,
that some modules, some extensions register.
Note that we can also use
the more specific endpoint instead
of just generic /q/health.
We can ask about liveness and
get the liveness response or
specifically ask for readiness
and get the readiness response.
Right!
So now we are going to move on
to the session application.
Session application communicates with
the schedule and the speaker
microservices in certain points.
In that it has some issues, we are going to fix them.
So first, we are going to add the smallrye
fault tolerance extension to the
microservice-session Reactor project.
We could just as well have entered
the microservice-session/ subdirectory and
added it there without
the -pl option.
Well, nevertheless, here we are.
There is an endpoint called allsessions
in the SessionResource.java file.
It simply invokes sessionStores.
findAll method to return
all the registered sessions
and if we have a look at the
SessionStores implementation,
findAll actually has a
Feature toggle implemented.
So if, sessionIntegration is turned on,
it uses the findAllWithEnrichment method.
If sessionIntegration is turned off,
it uses the findAllWithoutEnrichment method.
If we have a look at the
sessionIntegration
boolean, which is using this conditional,
we can see that it is actually
annotated as a @ConfigProperty using
the features.session-integration setting
from application.properties and
the defaultValue of false.
So let's have a look at
application.properties to
see the state of this toggle.
We can see that it's currently turned on,
which means that the findAll method will use the enrichment method.
If we have a look at that,
so the findAllWithEnrichment
implementation in the SessionStore uses
the speakerService.listAll method
to obtain a stream and map it to
the speakers and so on and so on.
If we have a look at
what Speaker service is,
again, in the SessionStore,
we can see that it is indeed a RestClient
injected into the SessionStore class,
which basically means we are
using RestClient for enrichment
of the speaker result.
If we have a look at the
configuration of this RestClient,
just looking for the SpeakerService,
any mention of SpeakerService
in application.properties,
we can see that by default,
the SpeakerService is using
port 8082 on localhost.
Just remembering these little details,
now what we are going to do is we are
going to open SessionResource file,
and we are going to create
a Fallback method in
case that the speaker
service is not available.
So if that happens,
we are marking the allSessions
method with the @Fallback annotation
and telling it to use
allSessionsFallback
method which we had to
add as well, of course.
And the allSessionsFallback method doesn't
really guess about any feature
integrations or anything.
It just directly uses sessionStore.
findAllWithoutEnrichment method,
which doesn't use any
external services at all.
Let us stop the speaker service
before we go and test it.
If we ask for sessions, there we go.
We get a response without
first name, last name, we
just get the first name of
the speaker for each service.
And if you recall,
we actually added a log record
here, in case the allSessionsFallback
method is invoked.
So we cannot expect a warning after
stopping the speaker service.
And this is the reload of
the session resource
and we can see that there actually is
a warning about Fallback
method being invoked for
sessions because the speaker service is
down at the point when
we invoke this endpoint.
And we do get the short names,
which just proves that the speaker
enrichment was not actually used.
Starting the speaker service backup,
we can check that the
session enrichment now works
again by invoking the
specific session retrieval
and here is Emmanuel. All right!
Next problem.
The session resource has a
method called retrieveSession;
retrieveSession, uses sessionStore.
findById method and essentially
could use a Fallback as well in
case the sessionStore.findById
cannot contact an external
service, the speaker service.
So what we'll do again is add a
fallbackMethod for it, which is here.
It just basically invokes,
like in the previous case,
findByIdWithoutEnrichment,
we've annotated the fallbackMethod.
But the requirement was that,
should a failure happen,
this method should not invoke any sort of
external service for the
subsequent 30 seconds, right?
So that's why we also added
a CircuitBreaker here,
configure it that if 2 out of 2
subsequent requests fail, we stop.
We open the circuit for 30 seconds.
So let's try that.
Stopping the speaker application again,
there we go.
Sending a request to the
session retrieval service,
we see that we get a Emmanuel,
not the full name Emanuel Bernard.
Using a timer here,
we can see that it takes 1 second,
so it's still actually trying to
reach the external service failing
and then going for the fallback method.
If we do that the third time,
we can see that the circuit has opened.
Now there's an opportunity
to see that it's really staying
open for 30 seconds, if we quickly
restart and we have to do this quickly
because I was too slow
the first time around.
So I had to stop the service again,
trip the circuit open by submitting
2 requests that failed,
seeing that the circuit
is now open and then
quickly starting the
speaker service again.
There it is.
So making sure the
speaker is up, quickly going
back to the terminal and submitting
another couple of requests.
You can see that even though
the speaker service is UP,
the request still return really
quickly and do not enrich
the speaker information.
Waiting for another couple of seconds,
we now eventually get the enrich data
because the circuit has stopped,
being open, it has closed
and because the backend service,
speaker service is up again,
we do get the enrichment back.
Right!
So the next issue is that there
is a sessionSpeakers method,
which again invokes the speakers resource
but since the speakers,
there is an artificial delay
basically built into the client,
into the backend method that
this client is invoking.
So we have to implement a timeout
in order to make sure that
this particular sessionSpeakers
method always returns within 1 second.
Adding a Timeout annotation on it.
That's quite an explicit request.
If we invoke the speakers
list for a particular session,
it's going to take more
than 1 second to return.
And you can see after 1.75 seconds,
we do get an Internal error saying that
there was an error handling
requests because it timed out.
Turning off the session-integration
is going to turn off obviously any sort of
external requests and also make
it possible for this method to
complete sooner than in 1 second.
So if we turn the session-integration
off and repeat the request,
we can see that the first time
around it takes a little bit longer
because the application has to reload,
relaunch because of the changed
application.properties
but then the second time around,
it takes 17 milliseconds to
return without enrichment,
of course, but also without a timeout.
Now, before we continue,
we are going to turn the
session integration back on
and go on to our next problem.
The next problem is that the
adding and the removing of
session speakers are 2 very
important methods in order to
preserve integrity of data
between the session and
the speaker applications.
So, we under no conditions want
those 2 methods to fail.
The amount of time that
it takes to complete this
is not so important as it is important
that they do actually complete.
So we have gotten a request to,
in the event of a failure,
to just simply retry
up to 60 times with the delay of
1 second between retry attempts.
That's easy enough to
implement, just adding
a @Retry annotation on top of both methods.
Of course not forgetting the new
import which is usually handled
by the IDE that you're using.
So once you've added those 2 annotations,
to addSessionSpeaker and
removeSessionSpeaker methods.
We are going to stop the
speaker application again.
Just going to skip all those timeouts
here in the logs. There we go.
We're going to be stopping
the speaker once more
and there we go.
If we tried to send a PUT
request to session 1-
1, adding speaker/Alex, to that session,
we see that we eventually get
an Internal Server Error in
the handling of this request,
going to skip the error message
because I want to show
you how long it took.
We can see that in
the exception message,
the exception was Connection refused.
So then the method actually tried to
contact the speaker application to
verify that Alex is an existing speaker.
However, it wasn't able to
do so for over a minute.
So it tried and tried and tried again,
of course, because it couldn't.
Within a minute, it finally gave up.
Let's retry this same request,
but start the speaker application while
waiting for this request to complete.
So sending the request,
going back to the logs and starting
the speaker application again.
There we go.
I waited deliberately for
about 10 seconds before going
back to the menu and
starting the speaker.
We can see that it literally
did complete within
13 seconds and returned
the modified schedule,
the modified session, which now
includes Alex Soto as a speaker.
So this is the enriched
information that we are looking for.
Right!
Next problem is that the updateSession
is sensitive to concurrent requests.
We do not want the 2
concurrent requests to
this method, to cause the data about
session to become inconsistent.
So what we are going to do
is we are only going to
allow 1 concurrent invocation.
So for as long as there is an
updateSession operation going on,
we will be refusing any other
requests to update any session.
For that purpose, we will simply add
a @Bulkhead annotation on top
of the method signature.
This literally, with the value of
1 does exactly what we wanted it to.
So if we go back to the test tab,
we can see that if we start
10 parallel requests using
the parallel.sh script,
telling them to basically
send a PUT request with the head
of Content-Type application/
json and the data of the
id of session being s-1-1,
the schedule it should use
should be schedule number 1
and that's obviously a PUT operation
to /session/s-1-1.
Looking again at the
signature of this method,
it is the sessionId in the URL
of the sessions top level path.
So that is exactly the
method we are targeting.
If we send 10 concurrent requests using
the parallel script and
print out the response code,
we see that every single request
actually fails until the very first one,
which took a while to complete,
returns a successful operation.
Right! So what we are going to do
first is restart the session application,
there we go.
So we are going to stop the session
application and start it again to
reset any data that we may have modified
during this end of Chapter lab.
What I forgot was a tiny little
bit of texts just above that step,
which says that the speaker application
actually also has to be stopped.
If you forget that, your grading
script will be failing,
see the Speaker Service must be down.
If it's not down, you will
get the number of failures.
I just stopped waiting
eventually and went back.
And what I did was I restarted
the session service again.
So I stopped it, started it just to get
rid of any side effects that the
grading script may have caused.
And additionally, I made sure that
the speaker application was stopped.
So the Status, which is
a command number 9,
now shows PostgreSQL is
running, Session is running,
Schedule is running, but no
other application is up.
Going back to the command
line, lab tolerance-review
grade should report all passing scores
on all counts and an
Overall passing grade,
which means that we can
actually go back to
the menu and start shutting things down.
There
they are, just stopping postgresql,
stopping this session application,
stopping the schedule application,
and then choosing exit,
running lab tolerance-review finish.
We will have to clean everything up.
And that brings us to the end of
the chapter and into the next one,
where we are going to discuss a
very exciting topic which is
building native applications
using Quarkus. See you there.